{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;
\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext15 header;}{
\s16\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext16 footer;}{\s17\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext17 Body Text;}{\*\cs18 \additive \i \sbasedon10 Emphasis;}}{\*\listtable
{\list\listtemplateid-1587750878\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc4\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00);}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-720\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listname ;}\listid1295598858}
{\list\listtemplateid-391109610\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00);}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-375\li375\jclisttab\tx375 }{\listname ;}\listid1865089393}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1295598858\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid1865089393\listoverridecount0\ls2}}{\info{\title     }{\author Michlo I. Walker}{\operator Betty}{\creatim\yr1998\mo5\dy30\hr15\min28}
{\revtim\yr1998\mo5\dy30\hr15\min28}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages3}{\nofwords885}{\nofchars5049}{\*\company Walker's AzTechs}{\nofcharsws6200}{\vern71}}\paperw11906\paperh16838\margl720\margr720\margt1152\margb1152 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0\formshade\viewkind1\viewscale80\viewzk2\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\footer \pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx10440\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\field{\*\fldinst {
\fs12  FILENAME \\p  \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt {\fs12\lang1024 C:\\WINDOWS\\TEMP\\Transition notes.doc}}}{\fs12 \tab \tab }{\field{\*\fldinst {\fs12  DATE \\@ "M/d/yy" }}{\fldrslt {\fs12\lang1024 5/30/98}}}{\fs12 
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s17\qc\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \cgrid {\fs36 Ack 4.3 Conversion
\par }\pard \s17\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\fs28 
\par Since we have successfully transitioned to the ACK! 4.3 code I thought it may be useful for those of you planning on doing the same if you saw some of the things we had to do in order to complete the transition.  Some of the items may not relate to you an
d undoubtedly there will be others that you have that I haven\rquote t listed, plus I\rquote ve not listed some of the items more uniquely related to us but this may be a useful guide nonetheless.  So, in no particular order:
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs24 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\cgrid \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 a)\tab}}\pard \qj\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx720{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}\ls1\adjustright {\fs24 
Naturally you will have to put back in any unique code changes you had before.  We didn\rquote t find this a great strain and we\rquote re definitely agreed that it was well worth it.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\cgrid \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 b)\tab}}\pard \qj\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx720{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}\ls1\adjustright {\fs24 
You will need to go through your channels and remove what you didn\rquote t use before and ensure that they are set to the levels they were before.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\cgrid \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 c)\tab}}\pard \qj\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx720{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}\ls1\adjustright {\fs24 
Races.  This is a big one and rather tedious so be warned.  You will need to go through all of your races (and we thought this was a good time to add more and so had extra work!) and select Magic Realms for each of them.  This will determine wha
t Realms they are strong in, weak in, resistant to and susceptible to.  Next you will need to configure each and every wear slot for all of your races.  The way we did it was to first ensure we had racial helps for all the races, study these and determine
 just what exactly each race would be able to wear; e.g. a creature that has horns would probably have difficulty wearing anything on it\rquote s head but could wear something on it\rquote 
s horns.  So,  this will involve taking some existing racial slots away, not just adding some (if you wish to remain logical that is).  Then you will need to ensure that they are balanced out and it\rquote 
s probably a good idea to have every race getting at least one of the slots.  Incidentally, we changed three of the slots that come with th
e release.  Then you will go through each race and change the TRUE or FALSE for each wear slot to correspond with what you\rquote ve decided upon.  Lastly, you\rquote 
ll need to update your racial entry/exit messages to put them back to what you had before (particularly if you have different races than those in the release).
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\cgrid \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 d)\tab}}\pard \qj\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx720{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}\ls1\adjustright {\fs24 
Because of all the changes with the races you will also have to get to work on creating racial equipment.  Your players are going to be upset that they suddenly can\rquote t use some equipment that they alw
ays used and are going to be looking for that specialized equipment.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\cgrid \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 e)\tab}}\pard \qj\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx720{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}\ls1\adjustright {\fs24 
Finally, for race changes, all your mobs in the Realm now have a specific race.  You will want to go through them all to ensure they are what they appear to be in order to have them act correctly.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\cgrid \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 f)\tab}}\pard \qj\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx720{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}\ls1\adjustright {\fs24 
You will need to go through all of your wiz powers and ensure that they are set to the levels you desire.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\cgrid \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 g)\tab}}\pard \qj\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx720{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}\ls1\adjustright {\fs24 
You will need to go through the rulers in rulerrank to change them back to what you had before.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\cgrid \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 h)\tab}}\pard \qj\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx720{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}\ls1\adjustright {\fs24 
You will probably need to configure your ICE connection and channels.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\cgrid \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 i)\tab}}\pard \qj\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx720{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}\ls1\adjustright {\fs24 
I found it useful to update the wizlock message whilst we were working so that the Adventurers knew what was going on.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\cgrid \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 j)\tab}}\pard \qj\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx720{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}\ls1\adjustright {\fs24 
Lastly, I am certainly not recommending this to anyone but thought I\rquote d share with you that we decided upon a complete pwipe.  We weighed the pros and cons and voted on it and so far we\rquote 
ve only had a few grumblings and 99% of those people are still here and seem to have accepted the fact that they have to start over.  Just wanted to share that in case you were considering it.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 
\par }{\fs28 That\rquote s it for now, if I come across anything else, I\rquote ll let you know.
\par 
\par Curtesy of Michlotixlan, Ancient Adventures
\par 
\par Zen\rquote s Notes:
\par 
\par The code is designed to import ack 4.1/4.2 area and pfiles with minimal if any changes, and save in the new formats.  If you have: 
\par   added sectors
\par    changed }{\i\fs28 how}{\fs28  areas/pfiles are saved ( not just adding new flags or whatever to existing area/room variables )
\par    added new wear slots ( prior to 4.3 )
\par    done any other interesting/unusual things with your area files
\par 
\par \tab T
hen you will have to take a good look at db.c and areasave.c and decide what if any mods you need.  The import old area code does some specific things, including mapping sector types to new types to fix the bad inside sector problem from 4.1/4.2, unequips
 all items from players as they load to handle new wear slots, maps old items to new wear slots, since many have gone away, or been modified.
\par 
\par \tab Problems you might see:
\par 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\fs28\cgrid \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 1)\tab}}\pard \qj\fi-375\li375\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx375{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls2\pnrnot0\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent375\pnhang{\pntxta )}}\ls2\adjustright {\fs28 
If you have created items/areas with new flags for items, they may not map correctly wit
h the new code.  In other words, if you used to have an ITEM_APPLY_MINDSTEAL flag, then simply importing your areas with stock 4.3 will cause the extra flags to become mis-aligned.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\fs28\cgrid \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 2)\tab}}\pard \qj\fi-375\li375\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx375{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls2\pnrnot0\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent375\pnhang{\pntxta )}}\ls2\adjustright {\fs28 
Some items have no equivalent mapping slots for wear.  The only object that I\rquote 
ve seen so far while playtesting has been a light, that got mapped to wear: take only.  You will need to listen to your players for a few weeks for any inconsistencies, but this has been minimal.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\fs28 
\par Ack 4.3 New }{\i\fs28 major}{\fs28  Features:
\par 
\par Race wear slots
\par NPCs can be set to races, or modified directly for race mods  ( magic and base )
\par New spell system: spell damage types ( spell realms ), spell damage reporting, damages balanced to make spells useful, new way of handling spells in general.  Check out sp_damage and sp_damage_message in spell_dam.c.
\par New configuration for .h files, making dependencies a bit cleaner.
\par New directory structure, especially for reports
\par New logging format, gives more info on bootup problems.
\par Fixed approximately 20-30 \ldblquote quiet\rdblquote  crash bugs..ones that don\rquote t become very obvious in the short term.
\par Cleaned up code inconsistencies
\par New money system
\par New object manipulation system
\par Emailing mud output system
\par ranges for x_findlev and x_find
\par Many, many more.
\par 
\par I know that as always, ack is help challenged.  It\rquote s a weak excuse, but coding takes up so much time that helps always fall to the side.  What I would like to do to resolve thi
s situation is to use the ack-admin mailing list for questions/answers, and I will compile a 4.3 FAQ as we go, then make it available.  I\rquote 
ve done my best to make the code self-documenting, and the features as intuitive as possible, but no one is perfect, so feel free to ask about features that don\rquote t make sense.  Good luck, and enjoy!
\par 
\par Zenithar
\par 
\par 
\par }}